General Feedback for the cohort:

Overall, this coursework was handled well by the majority, with the average mark being 77%.


Most people did very well in exercise one, with the biggest issues being a lack of comments, or not reasoning about the probability thoroughly enough.
Though it should be noted that was a number of solutions that featured extraneous calculations within the while loop.
The preamble in this section often was brief, and this was fine. There is not a lot to say, after all.
It would have been good to see more use of efficient string creation, and limiting output to a single constructed printline.
Arrays are often useful here, and some used them very effectively.
In exercise 2, many stuck with a do while loop, when switching to a while loop would allow a more elegant incorporation of the ahead bias and 1/8 chance.
There was a subset of students that left in the pure random choice from exercise 1, resulting in students overriding their own ahead bias and 1/8 chance.
Some solutions attempted a heavily mathematical solution, at the cost of readability and not gaining any significant computational advantage.
Few people realised you could either add a random number to AHEAD or use an array, to eliminate the need for an if statment.
Again, in exercise 2, there was a lack of comments. The preamble often focused on the probability, but then did not talk about other design choices in enough detail.
For exercise 3, many people did not talk about their testing, despite it being the only way to verify that exercise 3 met the specification.
While we did not explictly ask you to talk about testing, you are asked about how your solution achieved the specification and in the case where a robot is exhibiting clearly bad behaviour, testing is your only justification for what is being presented to the customer.
This exercise results in a broken robot, that cannot find the target, so verifying that it behaves as requested through testing is a very strong, and necessary, point of discussion when justifying your submission.
The best control headers made use of arrays or arraylists of options in order to minimise the need to exhaustively check every situation.
The best look headings took advantage of the relationship between absolute and relaitonal directions to calculate the direction to look in a single line.
Only a small set of students used hard-coded values instead of ENUMS, but there were a number of submissions with compilation issues.
Most commonly, students did not rename their class files, resulting in compilation issues.
------------------------
Feedback for student 5679421 for coursework 1 of CS118


Exercise 1:
	No Collisions : 1st
	Logging Output : High 1st
	Assessment of Probability : High 1st
	Comments : 1st
	Good Coding Practices : 2:1
	Preamble : 1st
	Ex 1 Mark : 84
	Exercise 1 Comments : While loop used effectively. Good string construction. Student correctly reasoned about probability. Indentation is inconsistent.  Does not follow Java variable naming convention.

Exercise 2:
	Balanced Probabilities : 1st
	AHEAD Bias : Fail
	1/8 Change : 3rd
	Comments : 1st
	Good Coding Practices : 2:1
	Preamble : 1st
	Ex 2 Mark : 51
	Exercise 2 Comments : AHEAD Bias not set to default. Chance to choose randomly is not 1 in 8. Coding standards / structure needs improvement.

Exercise 3:
	isTargetNorth/East : 1st
	headingLook method : 2:1
	headingController method : 1st
	Use of Controller : High 1st
	ControlTest use : 2:1
	Explanation of Testing : 2:1
	Comments : 1st
	Good Coding Practices : 2:2
	Modularisation : 1st
	Assessment of Specification : High 1st
	Ex 3 Mark : 74
	Exercise 3 Comments : Target is sensed correctly. Good integration of controller into ControlRobot. ControlTest has some issues. Coding standards / structure needs improvement. Indentation is inconsistent. Good understanding of the flaws in the specification.

 Final Mark: 71